Resume

Garret Smith
144 Powers Street, Brooklyn NY 11211 Tel.(917) 627 8078
garret@garretsmithprojects.com
www.garretsmithprojects.com

Overview
Motivated, creative web and graphic designer with a background in freelance web design and the
arts. Projects emphasize individual style and cross-platform versatility with a focus on web-standards
compliance and user experience. Proven ability with visual translation of abstract instructions;
Efficient and successful project management accomplishments; Astute interpersonal skills in
fostering effective client relationships; Devotion to detail and an impulsive knack for organization;
Awards in photography and mixed media art.

Proficiencies
XHTML, CSS, Jquery, Photoshop, Dreamweaver, Illustrator, MS Office, OSX and Windows
platforms.

Education
Bachelor of Arts in Visual Culture
1999 – 2004 Gallatin School of Individualized Study, New York University, New York, NY
Concentrations in New Media, Photography and Critical Theory

Experience
2006 – 2008 Garret Smith Projects, Brooklyn NY, Director
Freelance web and graphic design for clients in the fashion, art and music industries. Directed every
stage of numerous media projects from conceptualization, planning, budgeting, development, design
and optimization to back-end coordination and maintenance.

2006 – 2007 Chloe Piene, New York NY, Primary Assistant
Project management and direction of studio operations for a major internationally represented
artist; Design and maintenance of the artist’s website; Production of interactive and print media;
Writing copy for public and media relations; Coordination of studio archives, staff and finances.

2005, Eileen Maxson, Austin and Houston TX, Project Director
Design, management and construction of the installation component of Grand Opening (2005), the
commissioned mixed media element of Eileen Maxson’s retrospective at ArtHouse Texas, which was
awarded the 2005 Texas Prize for Contemporary Art; Role included managing a team of full-time
assistants.

2005, Aurora Picture Show, Houston, TX, Administrator
Executed a comprehensive office re-organization and IT overhaul; Performed web design and
maintenance; Produced graphic design for programs, posters and flyers; Public relations copy.

2002 - 2003, Elmor Holmes Bobst Library, New York, NY, Conservator
Repaired, maintained and re-designed new and antique materials for the library’s collection; Daily
duties required meticulous attention to detail, quality of workmanship and the overall usability of
materials.
References available upon request

