Back
General Resume
Mr. Smith is a licensed architect and a registered roof consultant. His interest in roofing began
in 1974, two years after receiving his Bachelor of Architecture degree from the University of
Arkansas. Prior to establishing TLSmith Consulting Inc. in 1998, Mr. Smith was the
Research Director for the National Roofing Contractors Association (NRCA). Prior to his
position with NRCA in 1988, he was in private practice in California and Alaska.
His professional activities have presented an opportunity for extensive travel throughout the
continental U.S. and Alaska. He has also been to Hawaii, Guam, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, Argentina, Barbados, Canada, Japan, Trinidad and nine European countries. His
travel has been related to committee activities, continuing education, lecturing, research and
project work.
Organizations: Mr. Smith is a member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA),
American Association for Wind Engineering (AAWE), American Society for Testing and
Materials (ASTM), The Construction Specifications Institute (CSI), National Roofing
Contractors Association (NRCA) and the Roof Consultants Institute (RCI).
Committees and Related Activities: Mr. Smith serves on the American Society of Civil
Engineers (ASCE) committee that is responsible for ASCE 7, Minimum Design Loads for
Buildings and Other Structures, and he is a member of the subcommittee on Wind Loads
(since 1990). He was elected to the Board of Directors for the American Association for Wind
Engineering in 1998. He is also on the international CIB/RILEM Joint Committee on Roofing
Materials and Systems (since 1989), the review committee for the update of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency’s Coastal Construction Manual (since 1997), the wind and
hail committees of the Institute for Business and Home Safety, and the Technology
Assessment and Advisory Council for the Colorado State University/Texas Tech University
Cooperative Program in Wind Engineering (since 1989). In 1999 he began serving on the
NRCA Architect/Engineer/Consultant Advisory Committee. He is also on the faculty of the
Roofing Industry Educational Institute (since 1988).
Previous Committees and Related Activities: Mr. Smith served on the National Technical
Committee of the Canadian Roofing Contractor’s Association (1989 – 1996), the Roofing Ad
Hoc Committee of The Southern Building Code Congress International (1991 – 1992), and
he was on a Ph.D. dissertation advisory committee for a graduate student at Clemson
University (1996 – 1998).
Publications: Mr. Smith has authored over 100 magazine articles, numerous papers for
national and international technical conferences, a chapter in two books, various technical
publications, and Roofing Standards, Considerations and Criteria for the State of Alaska
(1986). A list of publications is available.

Back

Back
Awards: Mr. Smith and his co-authors received the 1995 – 1996 L.W. Gold Publication
Award (first place) for a paper on EPDM membrane shrinkage, and the 1993 – 1994 L. W.
Gold Publication Award (second place) for a paper on shattering of unreinforced PVC
membranes (these awards were presented by the National Research Council of Canada). He
also received two Construction Index Excellence Awards for papers related to Hurricane Hugo
research. Mr. Smith is also listed in the International Who’s Who of Professionals (since
1997).
Employment History:
5/98 – present: TLSmith Consulting Inc., Rockton, IL.
11/88 – 5/98: National Roofing Contractors Association, Rosemont, IL.
2/86 – 10/88: Sidon Management Services, Anchorage, AK (sole-proprietor of a consulting
firm that primarily provided roof consulting services).
6/74 – 2/86: Maynard and Partch Architects, Anchorage, AK.
6/72 – 6/74: Page, Clowdsley and Baleix Architects, San Francisco, CA.

Back

