Jenny J. Chang
Brookline, MA 02445

Tel: 617.680.7899
Email: jenny@ichang.com
URL: www.ichang.com

PROFESSIONAL OBJECTIVE
A full or part-time contract position to help an organization solve complex business and user problems in
creative ways by focusing on the end user to design products that work, are fun, easy to use, and
profitable. Seek a balance of hands-on, management, and leadership responsibilities.
QUALIFICATIONS SUMMARY
User Experience Design and Direction — Over a decade of user experience expertise in the
technology industry helping both start-ups and Fortune 500 companies to strategize, define, and
design web and mobile products and applications.
Design and Project Management — Expertise in leading small to medium sized crossfunctional teams in the product development and software development processes.
o Proven design leadership and team-building skills with solid people, personalities,
process, and idea management experience.
o Plan and drive product direction and roadmap.
o Excellent written and presentation skills interfacing with stakeholders (Managers, VPs
and ‘C’ levels) to sell designs that meet both business and design requirements.
Designer, Problem Solver — Extensive hands-on experience designing digital products from
concept to deployment that are data and usability driven and user-centric:
o Information architecture, information design, interaction design, requirements gathering,
wireframes, user surveys, personas, task analysis, user needs matrix, use case
scenarios, process flows, branding, visual design, proof-of-concept prototypes, usability
evaluations and testing, and UI development and documentation.
o Industries: B to B and B to C, Technology and Communications, Media, Social Media,
Healthcare, Financial Services, Pharmaceuticals, Publishing, Retail, Facilities
Management, Architecture and Construction.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
iPhone User Experience Designer and Project Management Consultant, Rocket Farm Studios, Inc.
Needham, MA

July 2009 – Present

End to end Consulting Studio for iPhone Applications.

Currently on projects leading the design process and managing requirements and scope.
Responsible for defining and designing iPhone user experiences and interaction designs.
User Experience Director, CityVoter, Inc.
Cambridge, MA

May 2008 – June 2009

A ventured backed start-up technology and software company: CityVoter runs "best of" contests and promotional
events for media companies and advertisers. Founded in 2005, CityVoter works with leading media companies such
as SF Chronicle, Fox Television, VH1, and more.

Joined team to own and lead user experience, interaction design, and usability across all web
and mobile products. Advanced to be a key decision maker and Manager on product strategy and
concepts within a short time to also lead product development that met company vision, product
direction, and brand.

1 of 3

Jenny J. Chang | www.ichang.com | jenny@ichang.com | 617.680.7899

Implemented a Project Management process and responsible for the management all major
projects. Integrated a user-centered product development process and led cross-functional teams
spanning Business, Engineering, and Creative to meet project goals and deadlines.
Other notables: Created and executed CityVoter’s first and subsequent external Usability Tests.
An advocate for data driven product and design decisions including using Google Analytics and
usability test results.
Design Lead and Information Architect Consultant, Fidelity Investments (via www.Aquent.com)
Boston, MA
Financial Services and Investment Management Company.

September 2007 – May 2008

Design Lead and Information Architect Consultant for the Fidelity eBusiness Design (FeB Design)
Institutional Brokerage division. Provide design innovation and leadership on projects for a new
web-based integrated wealth management application, partly built in Flex, responsible for the
user experience, information architecture, user interfaces and interactions working closely with
Product Managers, Architects, Analysts, and Developers.
Serve as project team leader and focal point for all design deliverables and tasks: Site maps,
wireframes, visual designs, quick prototyping, user scenarios, user task analysis, user goals, UI
specifications, and usability testing.
Analysis and Design Manager, Iron Mountain Digital
Southborough/Boston, MA
March 2006 – September 2007
Information protection and storage company offering records management, data protection, and information
destruction solutions.

Managed and led a group of 5 User Experience Designers and Business Analysts responsible for
defining and designing the functionality and user experience for Iron Mountain's Archiving/ERecords Management product.
Crusader for selling, instituting, and evolving a user-centered design (UCD) methodology into our
product and software development lifecycle. Liaison between Product Management and
Engineering throughout the product development lifecycle to ensure business and user
requirements are translated into appropriate design solutions.
Built, grew and sustained a newly formed Analysis and Design Group within Iron Mountain Digital.
Responsible for recruiting, training, performance-based management, career management,
resource allocation and budgeting.
Sr. User Experience / User Interface Design Lead, Premiere Global Services, formerly Netspoke, Inc.
Woburn, MA
March 2005 – March 2006
Service and technology company offering ‘on-demand’ web and audio conferencing and collaboration.

Joined Netspoke as an individual contributor to lead, manage, create, and ‘sell’ all aspects of the
user experience and UI design initiatives and deliverables for the redesign of the web
conferencing product suite.
Significantly increased efficiency in the product design and development process across multiple
office locations and remote contributors by introducing, implementing, and evolving a usercentered design process and UI methodology.
Played a key role in the integration planning and design of the Netspoke product with the parent
company’s product strategies, Premiere Global Services, after the September 2005 acquisition of
Netspoke.
Creative Director / Director of the User Experience Design Group, ArcStream Solutions
Watertown, MA
A venture backed business and technology consulting firm.

July 2002 – November 2004

Built and managed the User Experience team from the ground up that was instrumental in selling
and delivering ArcStream services in Media, Pharmaceutical, Healthcare and Consumer
Packaged Goods (CPG) industries.

2 of 3

Jenny J. Chang | www.ichang.com | jenny@ichang.com | 617.680.7899

Sold User Experience Group through proposal contributions, sales presentations and project
work that resulted directly in the growth of company revenue and repeat clients.
Instituted user-centered design (UCD) principles and usability best practices across all projects to
ensure project consistency and success. Responsible for the on-time delivery and quality of all
User Experience deliverables from strategy to deployment.
Function in multiple roles as needed: UE Lead, Information Architect and Designer, Interaction
Designer, Functional Analyst, Business Analyst, Visual Interface Design Lead, UI Developer.
Sr. Web Interface Designer, Miller Systems
Boston, MA
Full-service technology consulting company offering engineering, IT consulting and creative services.

2000 – 2001

Built and evolved Miller Systems’ interactive web design capabilities. Key player in leading
the client’s corporate branding, establishing their online presence, and translating their
identity to the web. Mentor and supervisor to junior staff.
Responsibilities included: driving design presentations, information architecture, information
design, interactive design, visual design, technical implementation, and defining graphic style
and UI standards.
Web Graphic Designer, Iconomy.com
Cambridge, MA
Start-up venture backed company offering eCommerce technology and creative solutions.

1999-2000

Designed, developed and managed eCommerce storefronts: site branding, creation of
illustrations and animations, defining client specific style guides, and hand-coding HTML.
Freelance Design Consultant, iChang.com

2000-Present

Freelance design consultant on digital and print projects: iPhone applications, websites,
interactive designs, user interface designs, logo designs and print collateral.

RELATED EXPERIENCE
Symmes, Maini & McKee Associates (SMMA), Cambridge, MA
Project Landscape Architect, 1997–1999
Carol R. Johnson Associates (CRJA), Cambridge, MA
Senior Landscape Architect, 1994–1997
TECHNICAL SKILLS
Windows and MAC OS, Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, Illustrator, Dreamweaver, Fireworks, Flash, In
Design), MS Visio, Balsamiq Mockups, Keynote, MS Project, Microsoft Office Suite, Hand-coding HTML,
CSS, DHTML, JavaScript
EDUCATION
University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA
Bachelors in Landscape Architecture, graduated summa cum laude
PORTFOLIO SAMPLES and REFERENCES
Available upon request

3 of 3

