Kari R. Smith
kari@globalarchivist.com
Ann Arbor, MI • +1 (734) 997-0444
EDUCATION
2009 Certificate in Copyright Leadership and Management Program. Center for Intellectual Property,
University of Maryland University College.
1998 Master of Science in Information. University of Michigan School of Information, Ann Arbor.
Specialization in Archives Administration and Records Management.
1991 Bachelor of Arts. Major: International Studies. George Mason University, Fairfax, Virginia
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Department of History of Art, College of Literature, Science and the Arts, University of Michigan.
2007 April – current Head, Visual Resources Collections & Media Services.
Responsible for overall management and strategic planning for image collections, data, systems management and
digital asset program management. Manage over 750,000 image resources in 35mm, glass plate, photographic
print, and digital formats. Supervise four full-time staff, including the Supervisor, Media Services and the
Assistant Coordinator for Cataloging and Image Resources and between two and six temporary staff depending on
program requirements. Create and implement unit policies and procedures. Establish a culture of project
management and improved processes for digitization and metadata workflow. Coordinate with the Department
Administrator and Associate Chair to develop VRC budget and digitization project plans. Represent VRC
department at IRIS image cataloging database consortium meetings and other national and local organizational
meetings (SAA and VRA). Initiate and maintain close working relationship and expanded partnership with UM
Library system to meet shared goals related to image resources. Oversee cataloging database maintenance and
local implementation. Oversee transfer of archival and slide Distribution Project material to the VRC. Manage
Asian Art Archives image collections and collections maintenance. Conduct relevant research and present at
conferences and meetings, maintaining professional linkages and responsibilities.
2007 Feb – April Temporary Image Cataloger, Visual Resources Collections.
Cataloged images into the IRIS database using VRA core descriptive metadata standards. Conducted basic image
research (Internet and library) and consulted collection slides as necessary.
2007 Consultant, Centro de Investigaciones Regionales de Mesoamérica - CIRMA, Antigua, Guatemala.
Provided training and installation of the Greenstone Digital Library system (GSDL) for archival and library
collections at CIRMA. Conducted six GSDL training sessions for staff, initiated three collections, and generated
interface code according to specifications. Advised on digitization workflow, copyright, and standards for
photograph archives program. Consulted on the use of ISAD(G) archival standard for CIRMA archival
collections.
2003-2006 Digital Project Archivist, Rare and Manuscript Collections, Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY.
Performed varying project-based roles for a broad array of print and digital collections. Responsible for surveying
records, processing and describing archival collections, creating online information resources to provide better
access to archival collections, contributing to the development of electronic publications and exhibitions, assisting
with the creation of metadata standards for digital collections, providing public services to users of archival
collections, and developing archival processing procedural documentation and checklists.
•

•

Project Manager. Southeast Asia Visions, March 2003 – February 2006
Managed digitization project funded by IMLS with a grant budget of $280,000 and prepared grant reports for IMLS.
Coordinated work of forty staff in eight operating units in the library system to digitize over 350 texts included
standards-based metadata description of over 12,000 individual images within the text. Provided day-to-day troubleshooting and decision making for project staff to ensure a smooth workflow and the timely completion of phases of
the project. Managed the transition from the ENCompass delivery platform to the DLXS delivery platform.
Archivist Surveyor. Grape Growing and Wine Making in New York State: Regional Documentation
Identified and surveyed records documenting the grape growing and winemaking industries in New York State, with
a focus on the 80+ wineries and vineyards in the Finger Lakes Region in 2004-2005 and the 65+ in the Niagara and
Hudson River regions in 2005-2006. Accessioned and processed about 60 boxes of winery and vineyard records.

•
•

•

•

Processing Archivist. The Human Rights Campaign Records (HRC)
Processing, arranging, and describing archival collection of 120 cubic feet. With Curator, Human Sexuality
Collection, advising HRC on records management and the transfer of archival records.
Digital Project Archivist. Cornell Anthropology Dept, - Vicos, Peru Project Records Digitization Project
Worked with Researcher F. Zapata with selection, digitization, and providing standardized descriptive metadata for
photographic images from the Cornell University Anthropology Departments Records, Vicos, Peru – Cornell Project
collection. Structured and transformed descriptive data provided by Zapata into the Luna INSIGHT image database
system for access to the digitized Vicos project images.
Digital Project Archivist. On-line Collections and Guides
Processing, describing, and providing online access to digitized image and text collection in various delivery
platforms. Examples: De Forest Douglas Diver Railroad Photographs (Coll# 1948), Cooper Bridge Co. Records
(Coll# 4709), The Stevens Family papers (#1210), and French Revolution collections. Created the Web-based Guide
for the Michael A. McCarthy Papers – Sidmore, Owings, and Mills (Coll# 6306).
Metadata Archivist. GloPAD (Global Performing Arts Database)
Contributed to the development of a metadata schema for digitized multimedia content in a distributed environment.
Created an Application Profile for the GloPAD metadata schema.

2001 – 2003
External Relations and Communications Officer, University Libraries and Information
Services, Columbia University In the City of New York, NY.
Managed external and public relations for the system of 22 University libraries and three Information Services
departments. Conducted research and produced white papers for the University Librarian on software
developments and changes in information policy and scholarly communication. Wrote press releases, edited and
coordinated production of promotional materials and other publications for the University Libraries.
1997-2001
Information and Digital Image Consultant, Global Archivist.
• Established Global Archivist consulting to provide digital imaging and information management services.
• Provided imaging and layout support for image-intensive doctoral submissions to the University of
Michigan. Digitized a variety of image and print materials in accordance with image quality requirements.
• Digitized slide and published images for Art History presentations and course websites.
• Managed website redesign project for University of Rochester Art History Department. Performed
requirements analyses and developed information architecture for the site. Created and implemented
templates and graphic elements for the site web pages incorporating departmental graphic design.
1998 - 2001
Post-graduate Research Intern, University of Michigan School of Information.
Developed and managed several projects for the School of Information (SI) Academic Outreach and Practical
Engagement Programs. Consulted at tribal college archives and libraries in Arizona, Michigan and Montana.
Conducted research and developed programs applying information technology, library and archival sciences in
Native American communities and at tribal colleges. Presented papers at international conferences on digital
libraries and virtual museums. Organized student recruitment and involvement in outreach projects. Coordinated
and collaborated with faculty, library and archives directors, community leaders and K-12 teachers to develop
programs and hold meetings. Co-authored grant proposals for over $120,000.
•

Archival Consulting. Navajo Community College, Arizona; Native American Educational Services College,
Illinois; and Crow Nation, , Montana, 1997 - 2001.
Wrote archival policies and procedures and assisted collections processing and writing finding aids. Conducted
collections survey and wrote strategic plan for establishing archives. Implemented basic archival processing
procedures and trained staff.
• Coordinator. Digital Collectives in Indigenous Cultures and Communities Working Meeting,
Hilo, Hawaii, August 2001.
Coordinated international invitational meeting sponsored by SI and NSF to discuss building and using digital
collectives for supporting indigenous culture and cultural preservation. Identified native and non-native leaders in
research, funding, computer science, indigenous cultural initiatives and community projects to attend the meeting.
• Project Manager. School of Information Alternative Spring Break (ASB), 1999 - 2001.
Developed practical experience opportunities for SI graduate students in academic and not-for-profit institutions in
Chicago, New York, and Washington, D.C. Mentored graduate student ASB interns placed at archives and libraries.
• Project Manager. Cultural Heritage Preservation Institute Workshops: Navajo Community College, Tsaile,
Arizona, 1998; Sault Ste. Marie, Michigan, 1999; Little Big Horn College, Crow Agency, Montana, 2000.
K. Smith Resumé
rev. January 2010
p. 2

•

Co-developed with Maurita P. Holland the Cultural Heritage Preservation Institute, a weeklong technology and
culture workshop for indigenous peoples that brings local cultural, place-based, and geography information together
with digital technology to produce rich multi-faceted web sites. Organized cultural education sessions held by 30
tribal educators and community leaders. Assisted School of Information graduate students in creating technologytraining materials.
Records Management Intern. Health Services Office, Inter-Tribal Council of Michigan, Sault Ste. Marie, 1998.
Created a records management system for decentralized office, surveyed and processed 65 linear feet of current
records and established a departmental archives. Advised on electronic records management. Trained staff to
organize and maintain current records.

1991 - 1996
Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC)
1994 - 1996, Records Manager, Chemical Weapons Destruction Support Office, Moscow, Russia.
Managed staff and worked with IT professionals in design, implementation and management of electronic
records management system for U.S. Army office in Moscow, Russia. Coordinated a Russian-American
team in the development of UNIX-based ORACLE database management system for born digital and
digitized records. Created bilingual (Russian-English) controlled-vocabulary and metadata templates.
Created and maintained parallel database system for managing paper records. Formalized and
documented records management procedures. Processed, digitized, and maintained over 35,000 paper
records for search and retrieval. Wrote weekly progress reports to contract manager in Maryland. Trained
15 Russian and American staff on equipment, software and original records handling. Prepared and
administered a project budget of over $450,000. In 1996, served for two months as interim records
manager and administrator at the Johnston Atoll Chemical Agent Destruction Facility.
1993 - 1994, served as Administrative and Logistics Coordinator responsible for all administration, travel
logistics and supplies for thirteen staff located at client offices in three states, one Pacific Ocean atoll, and
in Moscow, Russia.
1991 - 1993 worked as SAIC Division Administrator in Virginia corporate office.
FELLOWSHIPS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVANCEMENT
2009 - 2010
Advanced Leadership Seminar, University of Michigan, Center for the Education of Women.
Selected for the 2009-10 cohort of women leaders at the University. Undertook a change management project for the Media
Services and Visual Resources Collections units to successfully combine two offices, reorganize space and staffing
responsibilities. Participated in the design of the session, Systems Change Management, pt. 2.
2006 - 2007
Fellow, NHPRC Electronic Records Research Fellowship, Global Archivist, Ann Arbor, MI.
Investigate implications of the Bioterrorism Act of 2002 on the record keeping in the U.S. wine industry. Project includes
surveys of wineries, discussions with FDA officials, industry-specific electronic records management system vendors, and
NARA accessioning archivists. Results will include survey results and recommendations.
1999 - 2000
Fellow, Professional Development Fellowship, IIE, Romania.
Selected from competitive pool of professional degree holders. Investigated systems and procedures for cultural
documentation at several museums, archives, and other cultural institutions in five Romanian cities during six-month
fellowship administered by the Institute of International Education in New York. Assisted Romanian museums and
architectural archives develop databases for collections management. Lectured on information architecture and the future of
information management to students at three Romanian Colleges.
PUBLICATIONS
Smith, Kari R. “Grapes of Wrath” New York Archives, Albany, NY: Vol 5, Number 5, Summer 2006.
Smith, Kari R. “Using Digital Technologies in Cultural Education.” Toward the Virtual University : International Online
Perspectives. Ed. Nicolae Nistor. Greenwich, Conn.: Information Age Pub, 2003. 219-232.
Smith, Kari R. "From Oral Tradition to Digital Collectives: Information Access and Technology in Contemporary Native
American Culture," RLG DigiNews Vol. 6, No. 6, December 15, 2002.
Holland, Maurita P., and Kari R. Smith, "What the Digital Library Doesn't Tell You: Exploring the Gaps and Opportunities,"
Global Digital Library Development in the New Millennium, ed. by Ching-chih Chen Beijing: Tsinghua University
Press, 2001. 89-110.
Holland, Maurita Peterson, and Kari R. Smith. "Using Information Technology to Preserve and Sustain Cultural Heritage: the
Digital Collective." World Culture Report 2000 Cultural Diversity, Conflict and Pluralism. Paris, France: UNESCO
Publishing, 2000. 186-96.

K. Smith Resumé

rev. January 2010

p. 3

INSTRUCTION
2008-2010
Digital Preservation Management workshops, Dr. Nancy Y McGovern, Workshop Director.
“Preservation Metadata Management.” M.I.T. Cambridge, Massachusetts, June 2010.
“Preservation Metadata Management.” Special Topic: Preservation Metadata at UIUC, Illinois, April 2010.
“Preservation Metadata Management” and “Action Plans.” HydroQuebec, Montreal, November 2009.
“Preservation Metadata Management.” Ann Arbor, Michigan, May 2009.
“Preservation Metadata Management.” Ann Arbor, Michigan, October 2008.
2000 Fall
“A Sense of Place: An Inquiry into Geographic and Virtual Community” First-year Social Science
Seminar, co-taught with Maurita P. Holland. University of Michigan, College of LS&A, 2000.
PROFESSIONAL COMMITTEES AND APPOINTMENTS
University of Michigan, LSA Dean’s Council on ITS - Instructional Services Support (2010-2011)
University of Michigan, Collections Committee, member (2007 University of Michigan, LSA, Department of the History of Art, Emergency Coordinator (2008-2010)
SAA Research Forum, Steering Committee, Reviewer of Proposals and Papers (2009-2010)
Visual Resources Association (VRA), Archives Task Force (2007 - 2009)
Visual Resources Association (VRA), Digital Initiatives Advisory Group, Special Interest Group (2007 - )
Society of American Archivists, Electronic Publications Working Group (2003 – 2006)
American Library Association, LAMA, Public Relations and Marketing Section (2003-2005)
Swap and Shop Committee; Education and Training Committee
Cornell University Library, Committee on the Economic Status of Librarians (2004-2005, 2005-2006 Chair)
Cornell University Library, Metadata Working Group Steering Committee (2003-04, 2004-05 Chair)
Reviewer of grant applications and articles on archival processing projects, metadata, digital collection development, and
indigenous records issues. (2005 – )
PRESENTATIONS
“Preservation Implications and Opportunities of Embedded Metadata.” Presented at VRA Annual Meeting, Atlanta, March
2010.
“Making Pictures Identifiable in the Long Now: Is Embedding an Answer?” Poster presentation at the 2009 Research Forum
at the Society of American Archivists Annual Meeting, Austin, August 2009.
“The U.S. Bioterrorism Act of 2002 and Electronic Recordkeeping in the U.S. Wine Industry.” Presented at the 2007
Research Forum at the Society of American Archivists Annual Meeting, August 2007.
“Talking about Grapes, Records, and Wine: Lessons learned from surveying records of wineries and vineyards.” Presented at
the New York Archives Conference meeting, June 2006.
“Records Management for the Wine and Grape Industries.” NY Wine Industry Workshop, April 2006.
“Digitizing Native Heritage” Presentation for the seminar “Academic Special Collections in Partnership with Native
American Communities.” ALA Rare Book and Manuscript Section Pre-Conference, June 2005.
“Southeast Asia Visions: Digital Collection of European Travel Narratives.” ACRL Conference, April 2005.
“Tracing New York State History through Wine and Grapes.” Presented at the ResearchingNY Conference, State University
of New York at Albany, November 2004.
“Choosing the Right System: Decision-making for Digitized Archival Collections.” Poster Session, Eastern New York ACRL
Spring Conference, Saratoga Springs, NY, May 2004.
"What the Digital Library Doesn't Tell You: Exploring the Gaps and Opportunities,” with Maurita P. Holland, presented at
the International Conference on New Information Technologies, Beijing, China, May 2001.
“A New Model for Cultural Heritage: The Digital Collective.” Presented at Digital Libraries '99: Advanced Methods and
Technologies, Digital Collections, St. Petersburg, Russia, October 1999.
“Collaborative Learning: Using Digital Technologies for Cultural Education.” Presented at Romanian Internet Learning
Workshop, Cluj-Napoca, Romania, August 1999.
“Broadening Access to Native American Collections via the Internet.” Presented at Museums and the Web 1999, New
Orleans, Louisiana, March 1999.
MULTICULTURAL EXPERIENCE
Work experience includes more than seven years multi-cultural experience in the former Soviet Union and with Native
American and First Nations archives and museums. Life experience includes growing up and schooling in Diplomatic
communities in Germany and Thailand (1969 – 1987) and work and research experience in Russia and Romania. Have
traveled extensively in Europe, Russia, Eastern and Central Europe, North America, and Southeast Asia developing a keen
sense of respect, understanding, and a sense of connections among seemingly disparate things.

K. Smith Resumé

rev. January 2010

p. 4

STRENGTHS
My strengths are Strategic, Ideation, Adaptability, Connectedness and Activator. I can see very quickly alternate ways to
achieve a goal and can spot relevant patterns and issues in scenarios. I can turn thoughts into action by laying out a plan and
chunk it into manageable tasks or steps and present such in varying ways to be understood by different people.
LANGUAGE SKILLS
Native English speaker; Proficient in German; working knowledge of Russian.
RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL INTERESTS
My interests include developing systems and approaches for managing, describing, and using information, adapting digital
information technology for archives and records management, and practical applications of such.

K. Smith Resumé

rev. January 2010

p. 5

