NATHAN HAINES
PHONE +1-562-787-2960 • EMAIL NATHAN@NHAINES.COM

OBJECTIVE
I am seeking to join a company where I can use my abilities to work with others in an atmosphere where I can
experience professional and personal growth through new technical challenges.
SKILLS
•

Public speaking and training experience

•

OCR and photo manipulation

•

Windows, Macintosh, and Linux experience

•

Quick to learn/detail-oriented

•

Advanced Excel, Python, HTML, CSS, 100wpm

•

Conversant in German

EMPLOYMENT
9/2008 – 12/2009 Fonality, Inc.
Culver City, California
Technical Support Engineer
• Specialized in PBXtra and trixbox Pro configuration and maintenance, as well as Aastra and Polycom
IP phone and Sangoma T1 and analog card operation and troubleshooting. Provided phone and email
support for over 5,000 customers in all areas of system configuration, installation, setup, and problem
resolution Expediently provided emergency support focused on minimizing downtime and then
resolving root causes. Used SSH to remotely work on Linux and Asterisk-based IP PBX systems.
12/2007 – 9/2008 Soft-Train, Inc.
Santa Ana, California
Lead Technical Consultant
• As a contractor for Soft-Train, lead a an upgrade and data migration project for the City of Culver City,
California. Supervising three subordinates, replaced 140 employee computers over a six week period.
Was responsible for refining procedures, preparing and troubleshooting new hardware, migrating data
from older computers to their replacements, and upgrading RAM in non-replaced computers.
Refurbished 30 replaced computers for redeployment in house and donation to the city youth
recreation center. Performed quality assurance on new hardware and handed data migration and
hardware problems with replacement computers.
Instructor
• Taught day-long training courses to business people on various computer programs. Class sizes ranged from
1 to 15 students. Tailored instructional focus to the needs and interests of each class. Topics covered
included Windows XP, Microsoft Office versions 2000 through 2007, including: Access, Excel, FrontPage,
Outlook, PowerPoint, Publisher, Word, and custom courses on transitioning from Office 2003 to Office 2007.
Taught on-site across Los Angeles, Orange, and Riverside Counties. Additionally delivered instructional
material weekly to other instructors over the above area plus San Diego and Ventura Counties.
9/2006 – 11/2007 Quest International, Inc.
Irvine, California
ITSD Operations Support and Customer Service Lead
• Continued to manage 4800-system billing and macros. Audited and managed proprietary online service call
database and asset management system. Automated invoicing and price calculation procedures for critical
accounts with existing and custom software. Wrote performance and cost analysis software using Python,
converting from online database to finished invoice worksheet in Excel. Handled service calls and vendor
communication, and provided backup support to call desk and Operations team.
Accounts Receivable
• Performed Accounts Receivable duties in accounting. Audited hardware maintenance contracts for proper
billing. Developed VBA macros to automate monthly hardware contract costs per machine for 4800
machines to help normalize and check monthly billing trends and changes.

7/2003 – 9/2006 Freelance work
Long Beach, California
Computer Consultant
• Designed and built custom computer systems for home users, offered computer troubleshooting and repair
plus system optimization and basic maintenance education. Designed Linux systems for server and home
use utilizing SuSE Linux 9.x and Ubuntu 5.04 and above. Acted as a property manager and provided financial
accounting for a court-ordered conservatorship.
3/2001 – 7/2003 Long Beach City College
Long Beach, California
Computer Technician
• Oversaw a small Macintosh and PC faculty lab. Answered support hotline. Assisted school faculty with
computer use and facilitated the adaption and creation of online coursework. Designed and maintained
course Web pages and handled OCR, image scanning, and color correction. Created a helpdesk operations
manual that contained all operational procedures as well as new employee training material and reference
guide.
11/1999 – 8/2000 Long Beach City College
Long Beach, California
Computer Technician
• Performed routine maintenance and installation of Macs and PCs on campus. Worked with a trouble ticket
system to travel to affect machines and troubleshoot and remedy problems. Created disk images for
automated system setup of in-use computer models. Set up several computer labs from scratch.
6/1998 – 8/1998
Bellflower Unified School District
Bellflower, California
Computer Technician
• As a summer job for the district, assisted the district's Educational Technology department. Maintained and
repaired computers district-wide. Built computer labs in newly constructed schools.
VOLUNTEER WORK
9/2007 – present
The Ubuntu Project
California, United States
Ubuntu Member and California Local Community Team Leader
• Joined the local community team to assist in Ubuntu advocacy and education. Helped run an installfest, ran
booths at California shows and gave presentations on Ubuntu and Free Software-related topics. Designed
team logo and various badges and artwork. Helped organize and run community and show events.
Performed training on various topics for local Linux User Groups. Packaged software for redistribution.
Author of two articles published in Linux Identity Magazine. Became an Ubuntu Member in May 2008.
1/1999 – 4/2003
The ticalc.org Project
Sollentuna, Sweden
Help Mail and News Editor
• Worked over SSH answering support mail from the scientific graphing calculator user community, assisting
with operational and community questions. Added news entries to the Web site and moderated and
participated in comment boards for news articles over the Web.
EDUCATION
1998 – 2003
Long Beach City College
Long Beach, California
• Worked toward a degree in Computer and Business Information Systems. Currently on hiatus.

