VIRGINIA SOLE-SMITH
3 Water Street, Beacon, NY, 12508
917.232.2565
virginiasolesmith@gmail.com / www.virginiasolesmith.com
Agent (Books): Kate Lee, ICM Talent
(212.556.7914 / klee@icmtalent.com)

WORK EXPERIENCE
Freelance Writer
September 2005 — present
 Ghostwriter for Deirdre Imus’ The Essential Green You: Easy Ways to Detox Your Diet, Your
Body, & Your Life (Simon & Schuster, December 2008).
 Bylines with All You, Better Homes & Gardens, Elle, Family Circle, Fitness, Fit Pregnancy,
Glamour, Good Housekeeping, Hallmark, Health, Lexus, Marie Claire, Martha Stewart Living,
Modern Bride, More, msn.com, The Nation, the New York Times, New York Post, Organic
Beauty, Parade, Prevention, Real Simple, Redbook, Runner’s World, Shape, Self, Women’s
Health, and Woman’s Day.
 Served as Freelance Associate Health Editor for More, January — April 2007.
 Wrote three front-of-book pages for Women’s Health (Health, Nutrition, and Fitness Reports),
April 2006 — May 2007 issues.
Organic Style
Associate Health Editor, March 2005 — September 2005
Assistant Editor, January 2004 — March 2005
 Assigned and edited two front-of-book pages (Ask the Doctor and Health News).
 Generated ideas and wrote three articles per issue, covering health, food, and beauty.
Seventeen
Features Assistant, May 2003 — January 2004
 Wrote four articles per issue, including the magazine’s Election ’04 column.
 Created the Seventeen Stringer Program, a network of over 200 college student reporters.
Internships
 Harper’s Bazaar, Spring 2003.
 Red Magazine, Summer 2002 (London).
 Seventeen, Fall 2000.
EDUCATION
New York University
B.A. Honors English and Creative Writing, May 2003
 GPA: 3.925; Summa Cum Laude.
 Member, Phi Beta Kappa Society.
HONORS


American Academy of Asthma, Allergy & Immunology’s Samter Journalism Award for “The
New Women’s Health Threat” (Fitness, April 2008).

ABOUT VIRGINIA SOLE-SMITH

As a freelance journalist, I’ve devoted the last four years to writing about environmental
health, social justice, and consumer advocacy issues. Diving deep into the lives of exploited
workers or victimized families is my forte: In May 2008, I traveled to Santa Rosalia, Mexico, to
report on sweatshop conditions in the town’s squid processing plants for The Nation. In 2007, I
exposed the tough working conditions faced by over 300,000 nail salon employees across the
United States. That piece, which also ran in The Nation, generated buzz among industry
members and environmental groups alike and resulted in media coverage on the “Women’s
Magazine” show on NPR-affiliate KPFA in San Francisco and Sierra Club Radio on Air America.
I’ve also taken on amusement parks, children’s product manufacturers, and the lumber industry
for the investigative features I regularly contribute to Good Housekeeping. Dealing with slick
corporate publicists, asking tough questions of company executives, and talking my way onto a
factory floor do not faze me.
Before going freelance, I was a health editor at Organic Style magazine, so I’ve also
developed an expertise on environmental issues. I’ve written about everything from reducing your
energy bill to buying organic produce for Better Homes & Gardens, Family Circle, Glamour,
Martha Stewart Living, Real Simple, Runner’s World, Women’s Health and the New York Times’
“House & Home” section. In 2007, I ghostwrote the third title in Deirdre Imus’ best-selling Green
This! series, The Essential Green You! (Simon & Schuster, December 2008). This book has two
full chapters devoted to organic personal care products and cosmetics, as well as sections on
eating and dressing more sustainably.
But whenever I deal with these issues, it’s with an eye to the needs of the mainstream
reader who isn’t quite ready to give up her manicures and highlights just because they contain a
few chemicals that might make her sick. I understand, because I am that reader — there are no
Birkenstocks in my closet. My first job in publishing was at Seventeen, where I solved kissing
dilemmas, edited the “embarrassing moments” page, and figured out how to make the 2004
presidential election relevant to teenage girls. And my friends will tell you that I still get pedicures
and spend a shocking amount of time obsessing over my hair — I’m just working on how to do
these things in a more socially responsible manner.

