THOMAS “JOE” SMITH
123 Royal Palm Road
Orlando, Florida 32827
jjsmith@cfl.rr.com
321.555.1212

PROFILE
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT / SAFETY AND COMPLIANCE
Seasoned FACILITIES MANAGER within the Behavioral Healthcare industry, specifically
skilled in construction and renovation. A versatile professional who can go from meeting
with medical staff to repairing plumbing to handling a bomb threat. Significant
experience in administrative facilities management and as an administrative supervisor
supporting clinical programs. Adept at handling major systems process problems,
including investigations, determinations of instability, recommendations and
implementation of solutions.
LOGISTICS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
PROBLEM RESOLUTION

PURCHASING
TROUBLE-SHOOTING
POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

TRAINING
CONTRACT MANAGEMENT
COST REDUCTION

SKILLS
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Managed construction and renovation projects from start to finish. This included architect
and builder selection; facilitating communications among senior management,
contractors and trades, and local and state permitting agencies; demolition; painting;
carpeting; flooring; roofing and finish work; and completing all licensing applications.
•
•
•

Supervised facilities operations of up to eight buildings, representing 155,000 square
feet, 18 FTEs, numerous sub-contractors, and a maintenance, repair and supply
budget of over $500K.
In charge of units housing over 100 various types of psychiatric inpatient and
residential treatment beds.
Successfully trouble-shot projects valued up to $1M each by acting as a liaison;
ensuring compliance to safety, health department and clinical standards and building
codes; and performing demolition and sub-contractor selection. Projects included:
√ Twin Rivers Annex ($200K/8,500 square feet)
√ Short Term Residential Crisis Stabilization Unit ($260K/8,000 square feet)
√ Outpatient Psychiatric Clinic ($1.1M/45,000 square feet)
√ Children’s Crisis Stabilization Unit ($694K/6,000 square feet)

COST REDUCTION AND FINANCE
Implemented numerous cost-cutting initiatives by reviewing contracts and successfully
negotiating with vendors on pricing for products and services and bringing in competitive
bids. Managed a $218K operating budget.
•
•
•
•

•

Reduced copy machine costs and re-negotiated terms of lease agreement by taking
advantage of a discounted program for non-profits and securing competitive bids.
Saved $200K monthly by re-negotiating pharmacy pager contract.
Maintained relationships with multiple vendors as opposed to single sources to assure
best category or item pricing and minimize expenses on office supplies.
Achieved 100% compliance in site audits over eight years in managing conversion
from grant and aid funding to unit cost contracting method. This was achieved by
collecting data, developing documentation guidelines, assuring strict audit
compliance and implementing training programs for clinical and support staff.
Developed initial policies and procedures for evaluating and collecting aging and
delinquent accounts. Implemented an incentive program for staff collection agents.

SAFETY
As Safety Officer, responsible for compliance with local and state safety codes,
implementation of safety policies and procedures, utility programs, medical equipment
and emergency preparedness.
•
•
•
•
•

Created all safety policies and procedures as well as related training programs for
management and staff.
Following a series of “sentinel events”, successfully passed Joint Commission on
Accreditation of Health Care Organizations (JACHO) audit with no loss of
accreditation status.
Received five JACHO surveys in 15 years with no failures or focus surveys--always
awarded full accreditation.
Initiated first employee exposure plan as required and subsequently approved by
OSHA--never received any significant OSHA findings.
Chaired both the Risk Management and Compliance Committees, and served as a
member of Root Cause Analysis Committee.

EMPLOYMENT
CIRCLES OF CARE
FACILITIES MANAGER

Melbourne, FL
06.78 to 05.04

Circles of Care is one of the leading behavioral health care providers in facilities, services, budget and
professional staff in the State of Florida.

EDUCATION
B.A., Public Administration, summa cum laude

Thomas Smith

2

University of Central Florida

